Welcome back.
Let's talk about space complexity.
What if I have a function that has the name of boo and all it does is it takes an input.
And within this input it's going to simply have a loop that we've seen before.
And this loop let's make sure that we do this properly and say that and that blank and we'll say I plus
plus and this function is a really useless function that just simply logs out Konsole the log to its
function.
So now in here if we just run the function
and just give it an input of let's say 1 2 3 4 5 and run it well we have BHU running five times and
we know that the space complexity of this function or time complexity of this function is a when.
But when it comes to space complexity let's think about this.
What is the space complexity of this.
Now try to guess before I go into the topic.
The one gotcha when it comes to space complexity is that when we talk about space complexity we're talking
about additional space so we don't include space taken up by the inputs.
So we don't really care how big the input is.
I mean we do care.
But when it comes to this function we don't really have a control over what sort of input it receives.
We only have control of what happens inside of this function.
So within this function are we adding any space Well not really the only thing we're really doing is
we're creating this let i equals zero variable and that's it.
Other than that we're not really adding any more memory.
So this function has a space complexity of 0 1 nice and simple but what do if we have a different function
what if we have something like this.
This time will have a function that says array of going to give it another terrible name.
High end times.
That's a terrible name.
But let's say that this function takes again an input and within here we're going to create a new variable.
We're going to say let Hi array is going to equal an empty array.
And we think here we're going to have a loop.
I'm just going to copy this for now on I have to bore you with my typing and in here I'm going to simply
say hi array in the index.
So as we're looping we're going to fill it up with high and we're going to return this array.
Hi
Ira.
All we're doing is we're creating a new array.
And for the number of items in our input we're going to just fill up high array with repeatedly.
Hi.
Hi hi.
Hi string.
So if I do this again and I say array of high end times and I give it let's say we'll give it and you
know what.
Instead of lenth let's just leave it as a number.
So I'm going to say and and I'll say six times.
So if I run this code we see that even though we have the boo boo boo over here from the beginning the
other function array of high end times returns us a new array with six items and each item just simply
says Hi what is the space complexity of this.
This should give you a hint.
Remember our Chichi variable's data structures function calls allocation.
Those things take space and in our case we created variables in our loop variable i.e. equals zero.
But we've also created data structures right.
We created a new array.
So now if we go back we see that in here we've created a new array and we fill this array with an loop's.
And again because of our rules when it comes to begob we ignore the constant time.
Let equals zero space.
And instead this becomes so event because we're creating a new data structure and adding memory so each
item is an additional memory space on our computers and times.
And you know what.
That's pretty much it when it comes to space complexity.
I think you're getting the idea and we'll get a little bit more into when we talk about recursion but
when it comes to space complexity you're either adding additional memory that you need to use and that's
sometimes a big concern.
And sometimes there isn't and something that comes up a lot in interviews and something that we'll talk
about in the next section that is sometimes there's a tradeoff between saving time and saving space.
So you have to decide which one you're optimizing for.
Let's get into some fun examples based on what we've just learned in the next video.
See on that one.